Good afternoon E our guest today is
Russian Shapov e Deputy Prime Minister
e of the government of Tatarstan squealing and a
member of the League of Free Nations and Good afternoon
E pandafist how By the way e
address you Pan Murza that's how in Tatar well
well they say Murza but to po
I’m not offended by any fende around everything, this is how you want to
say it because we have Russia in Ukraine
, let me then be your husband for
Russia
who lives in Warsaw,
pandas Ukrainians tell him it’s nice
compatriots of the
peoples of the Caucasus and others, they will find out that uh,
how Ukrainian Poles are treated
Dear people,
you look
I raise such topics about the
decolonization of Russia about the freedom of the peoples
that Russia once captured, so I
know that you were a representative in the
Ministry of Tatarstan who If I'm
not mistaken, he was  declared independence
so in the nineties Tell how
what way the Tatars to Independence was there
in the nineties and to  how it is now.
First, with your permission, I would like to
congratulate the Ukrainians.
I was blown up with
saboteurs from hymers tonight. I don’t know, I
didn’t figure it out.
for them it was like a
holy place and you see the Crimean bridge
today today is a common holiday for the whole
world perhaps for northern caries this is not a
holiday perhaps for
Lukashenka But for everyone for all of
humanity today is a holiday once again
congratulations to Ukrainians and all
democratic for uh  for such a
holiday
and God forbid that not only the Crimean bridge
in the future, so that
Lugansk Donetsk and Crimea would be liberated and the
Ukrainians received their
reward that the
invaders compensated the damage to the
Ukrainians, but we return to our topic,
this is a very
difficult moment in
1552,
our states were destroyed
by the Russians today  how
cities are being destroyed how Ukrainians are being destroyed
children the
elderly  and grandparents I even
notice even animals are being destroyed behind the
parks
there are such moments nothing alive
remains after the bombing That’s what
our Kazan Khanate was also destroyed in
1552 we have
been resisting for 567 years We are
Tatar
patriots including those who
fought for us Bashkirs and took the
Mokshalis
Kumyks also other peoples
this day Soon we will have October We
are going to celebrate all over the world
indeed the loss of the state is a
very
difficult moment I am glad to see
that as Ukrainians every day this
registry office protects step by step It
protects from the invaders of its territory
it is very beautiful  the moment is even
pleasant, my even mine After such
serious moments, we discuss with our
like-minded associates even
sometimes with relatives
returning to your question Yes, indeed,
for many
centuries, every 50 60 70 years, our people
, including
representatives of the peoples of the Volga Ural region, are
being destroyed,
let's say five years  back from Tatar
schools  and the Tatar language was expelled before
that they forbade us to study history
why this is done
by the Russian occupiers
this is not only about us Tatars
Kazan Tatars this is about the
Siberian peoples of the
Caucasian peoples
Why did they first destroy the history of all
colonized peoples the education system
children cannot children children already
children already  are deprived of studying
their native history The native language is done
so that
they do not know their native language they do not know
their history,
and this is already the first
step towards the Russification of the
colonized peoples And then,
as it was in the past, there were already in the past, there
were forced baptisms, they destroyed us,
they burned us, they drank
, they staged a genocide  And now this is already
being done is not
already being done through the education system
You see what morality 11 is coming over us
from the Kazan Tatars it’s not only not
only us of Kazakhstan it’s going over the
Crimean Tatars
as part of Ukraine We also
worry a lot about them lately
they were
arrested
[music  ]
fabricated
we can’t help other cases because we ourselves are in
the same position,
but look, as far as I remember, I can be
wrong in like 92 or 91
Tatarstan adopted a declaration of
independence, it was like that Yes, it was like that,
we held a referendum
664 percent of the
inhabitants of Tatarstan at that time it was possible
to say that the citizens of Tatarstan voted
for the
independence of Tatarstan, this is such an
inspired moment for us for the
inhabitants of Tatarstan, by the way, at that
time
, somewhere around 25-30 percent of Russian speakers
voted only for the independence of
Tatarstan
in those years,
I was a member of the Semey,
we then adopted adopted a universal
vote to open the Tatar
university and university to open
the media
to build where the Tatars live what
mosques were built
gymnasium school
Yes indeed at that time we had a very
pure Tatar spirit we all
over the world gave this example not only to
our Tatars and the people of the
Volga region of Siberia rose behind us  Caucasus,
and indeed then we would  there was a rise,
but after the arrival of Putin,
everything is being destroyed, indeed, everything is
being destroyed,
you can say
moral genocide is being carried out over us
over Kazan, if I'm not mistaken, there
was even some kind of agreement between the Russian Federation and Tatarstan,
so
in February 94,
Mitimir Shaimiev Boris signed an
agreement
corrupting the
powers between Tatarstan of Russia  this is
after the collapse of the Soviet Union This is the
first agreement of
non-water countries
in none of the national republics of
such a dollar there was a serious agreement
Yes there were agreements, but they were already somehow
secondary
And in 2004 Putin did not continue it
for dismantling Yes no the first time
from there from this  about 5-6
points of the dollar were removed, then another 5-6 points were
removed, and now it’s like it’s like an
empty piece of paper Well, it’s already not
expensive, all the more
What kind of agreement can there be If you sign an agreement between a
state republic
and our citizens go to fight in
Syria  Georgia is
sent to you Ukraine
if you think
other states would not be full-fledged to fight,
I always give such an example that the
Empire, it conquers new natures and
then throws them the name of the conquest of
new peoples, that's when,
for example, the USSR us Ukrainians there, so the
Kazakhs themselves threw a war into
Afghanistan there, for example, So now we
left  this empire turns out, but the empire
still has peoples that it takes the
Tatars, the Buryats, the Irats, the Kalmyks, and throws it, the Empire fights with proxy, it
turns out
such moments
when it was during the Soviet Union, you
probably know the story, they
crushed the Basmachi in the Central Asian
republics,
so you know then it was
from Tataria that the Bashkirs  Tatar
Bashkir regiments were created precisely from the Turks and
destroyed the Turks of Central Asia, by the
way, these peoples still remind us of something
like Our fathers, the grandfather of the
Tatars of Bashkiria, destroyed the Turks of Central
Asia again.
also created Tatar
regiments
Russian tsar I am the Russian tsar sent to
conquer Azerbaijan again, here they
pushed the Tatars against Azerbaijan
, the same process is still
going on, let's remind you,
Moldova
Georgia, the Chechen Republic, Dagestan
, there were cases of Ingushetia, Syria,
now Ukraine, the same situation,
the same system, the
genocide of the colonized is working  of peoples through the
involvement of Armed conflicts My
brother Gemini met
or Chubey the president of Azerbaijan, he
also told my brother about this
in detail how our
fathers grandfathers destroyed Azerbaijanis I
met the first president
Dzhakhar Dudayev then Asan Baskhatov Shamil
Basaev Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev and they and
they are all about this particular
really told the Russian
troops were leading
to conquer the Chechens of the Chechen
Republic Again, the same situation about the
continuation is already seen with you now And by the
way, I also watched a lot of
dead military from Tatarstan with
Turkic surnames and Turkic names
that  Tar Bashkirs get a lot that
I see the highest density of the
dead is Buryatia Dagestan, that is,
Moscow Peter does not fight, they send
these conquered peoples in order to
kill them,
but by the way,
our leadership of Tatarstan, if
possible, tries not to
send somehow, but
Patrushev arrived  you yourself are the
closest person for this, it’s Putin
who came several times, crushed, strangled
our leadership, but still send it
if we allow it. You yourself know if we
allow the head if Tatarstan
becomes tough, that’s what
happened with other leaders of the
governments of other countries We know everything,
but if possible  we have to
work There are only public
political organizations Yes, they are
trying to hold protest actions,
they put up leaflets Yes, even partisan detachments were created,
two partisan
detachments, the
first first partner detachment was
arrested, the cases were published, they are in
prisons,
I don’t know how the FSB officers could figure them out
But  technology
and the second group
left Russia because
we had two groups And in this
way the repression of the system the
machine works very hard in Tatarstan,
look, I
perceive
modern Russia as the Russian
Federation as a continuation of the collapse of the
Russian Empire in
1917 fell off the Russian
Empire Poland Finland Ukraine then
Ukraine  They were able to capture back in
91 before Central Asia Transcaucasia collapsed there,
Ukraine, the Baltic countries, and
now this is happening
somewhere, it is already ripe for the
third phase of the collapse of the empire, so Where in
Russia there are a lot of republics such
as Tatarstan, Bashkortostan and others
that
Russia still holds them only  they
carried a repressive apparatus on their bayonets, but
we see that Russia is now losing
on the battlefield, Russia is weaker than ever, and
processes are already beginning in Russia
that have a
destructive effect on the power of this
entire empire, and at some point it will begin to
crumble very quickly, so here
I am  question how people in Tata
so here are those who live now some who
lived in the nineties who now
how much they believe in their independence
And the fact that the egg states will be able
to live and develop is a
very good question I was pleased to
listen to the
very first moment of your Victory
If you will expel the Russian occupiers in the near future
and its territory
, including
Moldova, Georgia,
if these states are expelled from
their occupied territory This
will automatically lead to the collapse of
Muscovy, the Moscow Empire
We are already seeing that the Tatars have risen in spirit, they
really have risen in spirit, I have
already said before, they even created partisan
groups,
sabotage groups began to draw, but
they  they are already sitting in prisons for now Okay,
foreign countries somewhere 17 18 with a
protest they are the
media they are already publishing protests
condemning
Putin’s war they found Ukraine
has never had anything like this You
understand that representatives of the world
Tatars the organizations of the branch
left All Americans Total and that  tar and
condemn
Russia’s aggression against Ukraine this is a
very beautiful moment before that they didn’t
support Putin Yes, in the family,
by the way, their own Gazprom
financed the site Think they don’t even
need money they don’t even need
money they already condemn Putin this is very
very wonderful  their heart
appeared, including theirs in Tatarstan and
throughout Russia, the Tatars are slowly doing
various work in the Telegram channel,
whatsapp, generally
closed Internet resources. They are
working.
Really, this is a very good moment.
For us. For us, the Tatars of the Turks.
ranks second after the
Russians
if we rise again like the nineties
,
this will inspire everyone to colonize the
peoples and all the peoples will rise behind us to
order an example they will see Yes, yes, we are waiting for
this moment, by the way, when I
raise the topic about the fact that Russia
will fall apart about the fact that there is Tatarstan
Bashkortostan  Sakha Buryatia will be
free to me many in Ukraine gov  they yell
that no, it’s unrealistic there they
crushed everything I give an example Here was the
Soviet Union at the end of the 80s my
father was in such a movement of hands it was called
so hands for perestroika it was called and
they too they were few of them they wore
some kind of leaflets  illegally newspapers from
the Baltic countries were brought and distributed here and
now the situation in these republics of
national Russia is very similar to the
end of the eighties in Ukraine, that is,
people who moved this agenda
independence Yes, they were repressed, they
were forced to
spread information underground, but now it's
all much easier now  there is
Telegram and the Internet and also Here is someone
we will talk about thousands of
people will look and somewhere this
information will be deposited with them I think that
a lot of people should be afraid It
seems to me that I spoke there with different
people in a chat  roulette they are afraid that if
they share they will not survive because the
economy will not survive but I give
an example of small Iceland 300.000 of
us  And her GDP per capita is
higher than in Russia That is, if little
Iceland can live as an independent state by 300,000,
then why
Tatarstan there with several million
people cannot, by the way, how many
people there are in Tatarstan
than many European countries
Albania there are fewer people there  we
became an independent state through all
this bloodshed, but the conclusion was
said
about the
organization of Ukrainian hands for 20,225 years,
almost 30 years ago, our activists, our
leaders met Tatar leaders
met with your representatives from the
body,
ours already then studied how to fight
against the imperials, a
very good
instructive moment was a year  and three times
we are Kazakh Tatars that in those years we
also sent our activists the
Baltic countries of the
Caucasian Republic
also other states a
very good moment that's what we are
now talking about the same too
How many people
open their eyes They understand Yes
Ukrainians
protect from the occupier  of their territory And
why should the Tatars
become free and independent
, other colonized peoples should also be friends,
so we
raised this
[music]
problem in time, thank you so much
for our conversation
I
just realized the moment when everyone
was in the USSR for Europe for America We
were all Russians The USSR is all Russians and
now we are not Russians in Ukraine We are
also Ukrainians and many now in the
Russian Federation I think that Russian
does not understand how many Bashkirs are there A  how many
Tatars are there And how many Airat is
there how much sugar is there and when this
Russia will fall apart and
independent states will rise We see
that this is a huge number of peoples
who lived Here in the spike of this Empire
I believe I believe that the Tatars will succeed
Because when here I am  when I was little my
father used to take me to some rallies I
remember there were a few of them there they walked
with a finger while  why did you go there gold with a
black flag go there you are some kind of
Petliura Bandera sheep And so on
all the anti-Soviet where now all these
people who did not support before
nevertheless agreed this Independence and
understand that independence is right
many are afraid are afraid of changes here in  what
else, that is, at least somehow now, but there is
what will happen next. People are afraid and it
seems to me that it’s very right that here is an
organization and your activities it
will expand how it
spreads information in Russian Because
people need to be shown people need to be
conveyed very  cool
here I am
for condemning the
capture of Crimea
for supporting the
doleska I then defended the
Ukrainians of the Crimean people for this I was in prison for three years I
was in the Republic for me
it was a shock
this is such a rich hot land
they live in poverty it's okay these are social
problems What is today Even even
big trees  there is no electricity
or gas even after walking because the
swamp
and how insulted these humiliated
representatives of the Komi people, they are even afraid
to say that they represent the Komi people,
and again, now the Udmurts also don’t
say that the Udmuts are the same policy of
Russification from those times of the Soviet
Union, they are also zombies to Yuri, they are even afraid
to say that they belong to which nation
Well, yes, indeed then already uh  We have already
begun to find out when after the collapse of the
Soviet Union it was very during the
Soviet Union there were all kinds of fairy tales
Russian forests Russian fields
Russian
birch trees
Russian baths  many
peoples are the same Kazakhs and Georgians Uzbeks
Ukrainians Belarus they were already
zombified in those years that they kind of
represent
second-rate and they should be
Follow the Russians should become Russians
and by the way very well this
second-rate raised the topic I remembered
now I was small I him  seventy-
first year of birth for another 10 years caught the
Soviet I  I remember the jokes in all the
jokes, the Russian was cool and the
Moldovans were stupid Chukchi in general
stupid Armenians funny Georgians funny That
is, all the peoples of the Soviet jokes
were some kind of
comedic But Russians they
were this policy too We had such
that people come from the village to  they
grew up in the city with the Ukrainian language, but in the city
they begin to speak Russian so as not to
seem that they are Ukrainians so
that they are not looked askance
at.  says
after the army We have four brothers We came from the
Azerbaijani region from the village
to the city of Naberezhnye Chelny Well,
where KamAZ is produced
, the largest city in Tatarstan
When we arrived in the village, we
used to only speak pure Tatar,
even the inhabitants of our village
were Russian, they too
purely in Tatar, the conversation was
then in transport or in the store I
’m lucky. When we introduced a conversation between
our  They are Russians who told us that you are scribbling in a foreign language You see we are talking in our native language they say that we are scribbling Stop in short in your own language and talking on your own land Yes Well, remember such a moment I lived in Kyiv for half a year Well sometimes there are such moments Sometimes someone asks us for an address or time, I ask, well, already purely in Russian, I ask the Ukrainians, it gives me a purely Ukrainian answer, I think Well done Ukrainians By the way, by the way, I’ll say that you were in prison in Russia for what year 94 I was in 214 I was imprisoned in the seventeenth year I was in prison for three years and in the seventeenth year in December I was released You left Yes from Russia now it turns out Well then after my release I won’t say my name surname lieutenant colonel of the FSB he was once in our ranks, but he supported us behind the scenes, he said to Professor Failovich you leave the republics of Tatarstan, Russia, you found you excited, this time you are half
read 4-5 years is no longer a general regime, but a strict regime. I ask as a friend, as your colleague, leave this Tatarstan, I had to leave Tatarstan. When I arrived in the city of Kyiv, I was met by Rifat Chubarov Mustafa. and Kazan Tatars who live, they are already citizens of Ukraine, also helped me there at the point of the year I was very active in inviting me to a lot of television companies form of an agency for the sake of broadcasting newspapermen I did a political work society for half a year I lived and I only had left from the Ukrainians I did not see any there of fascism, of course. Moreover, in Russia there are just people there and Central Asia from the Caucasus, they don’t respect them there, they call them names with some words like that. What is there in Russia? Crimean Tatar event by Crimean Tatar Turks and Muslims during the offensive I say Allah Akbar or Assalam alaikum  publicly if
so if at some public events
uh in the cities of Russia so you say such
words
immediately into the camera
there is absolutely no
interethnic confrontation there absolutely
but again 24 hours a day
propaganda Russian labor that there are
Nazi fascists in general even even
recently I  started an
Internet resource even children started watching
this horror zombified little children
it’s no good
at all it’s a nightmare at all It’s the same as
Hitler’s Germany was, that is,
state Propaganda pumps
pumps pumps pumps that everything around
in the world Bastards That’s just the Third Reich And
here  then everyone in the world Bastards only
Russia against everyone, here they have such a
concept But look, by the way, in
Tatarstan, the law enforcement agencies there are the FSB police, the
prosecutor's office, they are mostly Tatars
or a lot of Russians
in a civil structure where the head of the
head of cities is the head of the city administration, the
measures of cities are mainly  almost
eighty-five times
Tatars including h  if most of the Tatars from
power structures are mostly Tatars, yes,
it turns out here If And when
Tatarstan gains independence,
in fact, this entire power apparatus
can become the same as in Ukraine it was, that
is, it was the KGB Yes, it was then
reformed there into the
security service of Ukraine, some of the personnel were
fired, some remained
How  you will appreciate it. When
Tatarstan gains independence from scratch, you will need to
rebuild all the structures or just the
existing republican structures,
they will be transformed already into the structure of an
independent state,
but we, public politicians,
have been talking about this for a long time,
discussing even discussing
this with the Tatars and Chuvash reserves from
Bashkirs
really
if my
Tatarstan Bashkortostan
Mordovia
Udmurtia become independent
states here we will have
to do a cleanup,
let's say today
our residents of Tatarstan are directly brazenly sent to fight
against Ukrainians, we should not
forgive the same You must p  to bear
responsibility for this, who
in the past We know in the past, then
publicly Even some did not publicly
support the independence of Tatarstan
We all know These are the people who need
to be brought to power,
but now in the schools of Tatarstan the
Tatar language I understand that they study
as foreign Sort of  so that is,
several hours a week, two hours, but it’s
optional, it’s the same disgrace, it
turns out mathematics, physics, they don’t study
the
topic of education in Tatar,
then when the Tatars were in Gris Gris,
we unanimously voted that for the
Tatars
to open a university to create a
university of higher educational
institutions, we really could
to achieve, but after the arrival of Putin
, the Tatars were closed in those years, the
Tatars felt that it was the
Kazakh Tatars who felt that it was
with the opening of
higher educational institutions that we Tatars could be
our children Tatars could study in
higher educational institutions in those years
, thousands of
Tatar schools of the gymnasium were opened,
hundreds of thousands of
parents gave out their children  children of the
Tatar school of the gymnasium,
and already when
they began to close above the institution,
all
our parents began to take their
children away from the Tatar school of the gymnasium Yes,
because the university is still
in Russian Yes, it turns out in Russian
, but again, the same collapse is the
same
if the Tatar university This is purely  there
is history there and optional there, everything is
all there, I won’t reshoot it already, I still
heard, you know, from Russian chauvinists
such that it can’t be Science in the
Buryat language in Tatar That’s how it
can’t be eaten here the
Turkish language, it’s also Turkic, so it’s
close  to the Tatar language Why can Turks
conduct universities and schools in Turkish
, the Tatars will not be able to do this, this is all the politics of
this Russian Shonism that
wants to bring down everyone and so that your
children and grandchildren would later call themselves and
there were 140 million Russians,
but yes there is such a moment
we are about  300
million Turks We do not communicate with
you
in Turkey, they work higher for an institution that
comes there from all over  the Turkic world
and, again, the Turkish
gymnasium schools worked
throughout Russia, but again, after Putin came,
they were all
expelled and sent back to Turkey Well,
under the guise of how Russia is
spreading ideology under the Turks,
under such a slogan, they expelled all the
Turks, we
helped open gymnasiums in Tatarstan
were  such moments then we have
very good finances We even these Tatar
gymnasium schools Turkic gymnasiums We even
sponsored financed
but look at the natural resources in
Tatarstan they produce oil gas or I
know in Bashkiria there is oil in
Bashkortostan in Tatarstan
there is an individual gas and gold a lot of
natural  resources, but then again,
what we extract.
Well, we are colonies, so every year
Tatarstan
sends 870 billion to Moscow, even somewhere
from 15 percent, only we are left with
the same and then Moscow throws handouts and
says that you are there, these
subsidized regions, that's how Bashkortostan
is, but  back again. By that
time, the Komi Republic
they were much  more often
natural resources forests gas them there that
only
even such large villages
have no gas or electricity
even Let them go where it’s
feudalism it’s the same but Russia
sells gas to all of Europe yes yes But yes But
I often sell it in conversations with
Russians with  Russians are asked this
question If Russia is such a rich
country, it sells gas to all of Europe, that
is
, it receives a huge amount of money, then where does this money go, that
this is your village there, there is no gas
plumbing
there, they don’t understand they don’t understand what
Moscow is with it there  clicking on this
political one who takes it
to yachts for everything and weapons,
this is a problem that needs to be reported to
people, but I think that we
are like this  you are like Chudakov But
they say something there, some kind of independence What kind of
independence How will Russia fall apart,
once we had this  oh there Vyacheslav
drafted in Ukraine also how he was
perceived God, what independence of
Ukraine This is how the
Soviet Union would collapse and then the Soviet Union collapsed and it turned out that
Yes, this person carried very correct
ideas and that's how more such people will be
I call people like you like these
lighters,
while they are there, they can light other
people, and they will light other people, and the
more such lighters there are, the
faster this darkness will dissipate because everyone
will light up
yes, I remember so beautifully You this
Leninsky this such a small newspaper
was called Iskra and it turned out to be a
Revolution yes, that is, the logic is the same yes
But look at Tatarstan I
understand that
Tatarstan and Bashkortostan are separated from
other Turkic peoples of Kazakhstan by a
strip of regions of the Russian
Federation there Orenburg if  I'm not mistaken
Orenburg region, this was also
once Kazakh territories Yes  that's all
it was Here the Turkic peoples are populated
this is the power of the deep-Turkic lands this time but I
want to supplement your words your
proposals in helping the republics there live
three Turkic peoples the Tatars of Bashkiria
Chuvashia Chuvashs are Christians but they are Turks
I don’t know that they are Turks
Christians
we have been working for three years already video
even addressed the head of the Republic of Bashkortostan at that time,
but he was immediately crushed by Moscow
curators
such a situation But at that time
it was such an auspicious moment for us
Kazakh public leaders of the Kazakh
society political leaders very
seriously supported us a lot of
organizations they are just waiting for this
moment
to help  The Volsk peoples, namely the Tatars of
Chuvashia, Bashkiria, joined
through the
Orenburg corridor By the way,
how much in language can you understand the
language of the Bashkirs Kazakhs in Azerbaijanis
Turks how close they
communicate without an interpreter
Let's say with the Bashkirs we have absolutely no problems with the Chuvashina Yes there are a few there are
problems
We need an interpreter here, with Egorami, we can communicate with Azerbaijanis absolutely
from Balkars,
and cities
that in China
also carry out political work with
Kazakhs also communicate calmly freely
with Uzbeks, too, but it turns out
with almost the entire Turkic world, the bulk of
us communicate without an
interpreter. This is a very good wonderful
moment.  it’s like us, for example,
there are Slavic peoples Maybe Ukrainians are
Poles there
Even if they communicate in such a huge
number of words, we will understand each other
Yes, we also have the same
But look now, as I understand it,
Turkey So she
claims so behind the scenes for the role This is the
leader
panteresno  someone there in the world and, in principle,
Erdogan, I see that he is pursuing such a
policy. Yes, to help the Turkic people
who are in
Central Asia in Russia. How do you
assess
Turkey’s influence
in helping the
Turkic peoples of Russia gain freedom
?
liquidated in our republic, this
is  the first at that time the president
of tatarstan supported nursultan nazarbayev the president of azerbaijan the president of turkey of the erdogan regime also
other turkic presidents and others
also other presidents of the democracy of the
state because of this the most recent
was eliminated the post of president of
tatarstan
now back
in turkey
for all the turks was such an
inspiration they got  when Turkey
helped Azerbaijan to
liberate
Karabakh, when
so many
political even ordinary Turks
united as spiritual. Psychologically,
this is one
of those times,
in principle, how it doesn’t go upside down,
looks, but somehow, well, it already feels
proud and the second moment was like that, it
seems to have been seven-eight months  back
or something in public speeches, berdagan showed a
map of the
Turkic world there already almost more than
half of the land of the Turks is the second moment of the
Dryatürks of Russia before the reason for
them to feel that they are like their
Land that this is their native
homeland occupied by the
Russians then the
Turks of Russia
Zira is a very large de  lo showing a map of the
Turkic world
So let's finally so that
you would like to wish all viewers from
Ukraine who are watching us to viewers from
Russia some thoughts, here are
my wishes  next year, the
Turkic peoples saw in the spaces of the
occupied territories of Muscovy the
free independent
states of the Republic, not only the
Turkic peoples and the Russian peoples
, but also other representatives of the peoples
, including the same Buryats
who are fighting
for Putin, of course it’s a pity, but I want there to
be peace that the
future Republic lived like
European countries peacefully
helped each other
cooperated that they had
economic political
historical spiritual that proximity
High vilnis of Ukraine are alive Yes When And by the
way, here we Ukrainians have a
slogan there Glory to Ukraine is the hero of the word
There is some kind of greeting from the Tatars,
which is a national greeting  somehow,
or you communicate in this Salam alaikum
there is such a word
freedom I want to tell all all the Turks
7 colonized people of
Muscovy Azatlyk
we will know correctly By the way recently I also
broadcast and some guy from
Bashkortostan also found out We were talking about words
He said that  the word pencil is from the
Turkic Kara, black there is even a stone. I
really looked at the dictionary
shows that it is from the Turkic language before
it came very interesting, by the way, we have
a lot of words in the Ukrainian language
that came from the Turkic because
our peoples were neighbors, they
exchanged culturally and I think that  We
Ukrainians should not just stand
aside and watch what is happening in
Russia, but we should help the peoples of
Russia to gain independence just
as Europe America used to help
Ukraine with a crane from the Baltics because it is in
our own interests that many Ukrainians
say that let them go there themselves
the Tatars understand the head of the Bashkorts and forge
us they are not interested in I say h  then no,
because if we leave Russia, within
these borders of which there is an Empire, even if
they remove Putin in 20 years,
new Stalin Putin Khrushchev will be born there, so
this is the territory of the Empire, it will
give rise to an emperor and therefore the
only way is we must help
these all peoples gain their
independence  and build our friendly relations with these
independent states
I believe in Tatars I believe
in Bashkorts I believe in Sakha I believe in Buryats
I believe in the Caucasus there it is All peoples are waiting
in the wings because the Empire is weakening,
which means that soon we will have a spring of
peoples
prosperity of Independence to the people because
it is in an independent country that one can
feel the fullness of the national
Revival as in Ukraine Why do Russians
rage that Ukraine exists because
other peoples see that it is possible
to develop without Russia Ukraine is developing very much
And I believe that Tatarstan
will also develop
Thank you very much for the conversation  we had
a guest Russian Shapov  deputy
prime minister of the government of
Tatarstan in exile member of the League of
Free Nations huge Thank you
Murza Rafis for taking the time
to let our viewers see and understand what is
happening in Tatarstan, what is happening to the
Tatar people and what is their path to
Independence Thank you so much
[music]
I  I think everyone who looks will be inspired by both
Ukrainians and Tatars and other nations with a
positive and will move towards a common
common Victory Thank you very much